Daily interactions,
this might be the most important informal communication I have here in
this section because it's happening all day long.
So daily interactions are those actions,
your behaviors, discussions, comments,
attitudes and how you carry yourself all day long with your team,
your manager and customers.
So here are a few tips.
Show appreciation a lot.
The currency of appreciation is as big as a raise.
For example, here's what I appreciate about you and your contribution,
and give a specific example.
You know,
a basic attaboy or attagirl doesn't really work for those who
put their heart and soul into their work,
instead say something unique to your employee like I
appreciate the way you pull in people from other
departments to reach your team's goals.
You're a good communicator.
Managers need to notice employee's distinctive contributions
and let them know that you notice as well.
Sometimes showing appreciation in front of other team
members also helps show them that you care,
just be sure you do it for everyone, not just one or two.
Yes, everyone.
Even those who may not contribute as much,
but they still contribute something and they have their niche,
so find it and show your appreciation to them.
Thank you!
From the elevator to the parking lot represent opportunities
for managers to engage in interactions and show appreciation
for their employee's efforts.
Public recognition at a staff meeting or a thoughtful thank you in
a newsletter or email is also very meaningful.
For example,
sometimes in an email to an employee regarding a project
I might add a little bit at the end,
like - hey thanks for pushing out that software
release every Friday for the team, I appreciate it.
Also, what do you?
Employees will withhold their best ideas for managers who always have
the right answer or take credit for other's ideas.
I hope that's not you.
For example, managers need to proactively ask their employees,
how do you think we could improve?
What's getting us stuck in this area?
What do you love about the work you're doing here?
So establish a safe environment in which people have the opportunity to
express themselves and be recognized for their ideas.
Yes, not all ideas will make a difference and be worthy to act upon,
but provide that environment so they can share them and
get involved in the organization.
Alright, now let's see a few more ideas about daily interactions.
Here are a few more daily interaction tips I can share with you.
Here's what's happening in our department,
in other words,
organizations operate in a constant state of change and many
times information is withheld from team leaders or just not
shared properly until the last minute.
This is an enormous distraction for some employees who need real
information about their futures to be productive in their work.
Managers often underestimate employee's ability to accept
why if it is shared in an honest way.
Also managers will gain more respect when they share as much as they know,
as soon as you can share it.
So real explanations are always better than no explanations,
even if you have no information, be straightforward and honest and say - hey,
here's what's happening and here's what I don't know that's happening.
Alright, I have some feedback for you.
Don't wait for the annual performance review to tell people how they're doing.
Try providing real-time feedback right after an event or activity happens.
A culture of continual feedback is healthy and agile,
hopefully it's always good feedback,
but if you need to offer some other coaching feedback,
do it right then at the time.
Don't let it simmer and don't let resentment build.
Next, my bad.
Here is something I learned the hard way, so to speak.
Smart, capable managers who know their stuff are well respected,
but employees like and trust managers who are not only smart,
but can occasionally lean back and laugh at their own mistakes and
who are generous with what life has taught them.
Don't be afraid to show that you're human too.
We all make mistakes.
So what I mean by my bad is that, hey I screwed up,
it's my fault, I'm sorry, I will take responsibility for the entire team,
even though maybe one or two people on the team,
you know, were part of it, nonetheless,
take responsibility when anything goes wrong as much as you can.
And the next, hello Danielle.
Dale Carnegie said the following, I quote,
"a person's name is to that person the sweetest and
most important sound in any language.
" Get to know your employees by name, that shouldn't be hard,
in this scenario we have a small team of people.
But I would get to know people's names in the broader sense,
your customers, your suppliers, your management chain,
and even if you know their name, use it regularly.
It just makes them feel good.
If the company is too big to know everyone's name,
start with the people close in proximity if you can.
There's no excuse for saying, I'm not good with names.
And I have used that line many times, it's not an excuse.
So I'm working really hard to get the people's right.
People enjoy being called by their name.
Alright, now let's see what Mark Twain thinks about telling the truth.
"If you tell the truth, you don't have to remember anything,
" by one of my favorites, Mark Twain.
The point of this slide is to always be honest and
forthright at all times with your management,
your customers and your team.
Honesty builds trust and you can take trust all the way to the bank.
Avoid political spin and tell it straight. Be courteous and respectful in your communications and always be honest.